VERGILIUS
43
the Dardanelles.
He rejects the Etruscan mounded tombs as the inspiration for the Augustan family tomb, and favours the 'heroic' versions adopted by the epic poets, including Vergil, as the propagandaladen
models
for a 'Trojan'
Augustus.
Scholars
have
frequently
detected structural and illustrative parallels between the Aeneid and
the Augustan Ara Pads. Henning Malmstrom' s Ara Pads and Vergil's
Aeneid:
A Comparative Study (Malmö, 1963) even suggested that the
march-past of Roman heroes-tocome in Anchises'
review
(Aen. 6)
found a direct reflection, even identification, in the historical
relief
processions on the Augustan monument.
Galinsky's article (24) finds
reason to identify the Tellus or Italia panel with Venus, called Aeneadum genetrix by Lucretius, and
in Italy customarily
identified with
natural and garden fertility.
He provides several convincing illustrations from the text of the Aeneid to support his claim.
Herrmann (25)
find additional reasons to identify the 'puer' of Eclogue 4 ('Messianic')
with the short-lived Marcellus in Aeneid 6.
Galinsky (26) discovers
three functions in the HerculesCacus episode in Aeneid 8:
to echo and
foreshadow various motifs of other books and so to help unify the epic;
by parallels of imagery, language, symbolism and occasionally theme
to link the 'volcanic' episode to Aeneid 2 and to Aeneid 12, for Hercules
and Cacus surely foreshadow Aeneas and Turnus; and finally, by reason
of the relationship between Books 6 and 8, closer than that between 2
and 4, to aid and abet the structure of the Aeneid as a triology.
The
Golden Age has received careful study from two scholars, an Australian
(27) and a German (28).
The Golden Age, when man lived on the fruits
of the earth, in peace and piety, and with primitive simplicity, was a
preoccupying theme with the Augustan poets.
Reynen (28) shows how
Ovid and Vergil viewed this ideal paradise, lost and regained with the
advent of Augustus.
McGushin (27) shows that the ideal of wealth, and
repeated emphasis on gold, feature in the description of all the cities
encountered by Aeneas save one, the simple
settlement of Arcadian
Evander at Pallanteum.
Aeneas gradually realises that a material city
(moenia) and material power are not enough.
Simplicity, endurance,
and
the
Saturnian mores are
more
important
and durable than the
splendour, comfort, and enervating atmosphere of wealth and prosperity.
Williams (29) offers a new
interpretation
of
Turnus'
reply
to
Drances.
He excludes Aen. 11, 404 (cf. Aen. 2, 197) as an inappropriate remark
for Turnus;
but he regards the Aufidus allusion as extremely pertinent to Turnus, for his homeland, before Ardea, was the
territory of Daunus where the obstreperous Aufidus (cf. Horace, Odes
3, 30, 10) was not likely to run backwards.
APPENDIX VERGILIANA, VITAE
32.
Clausen, W. V., F. R. D. Goodyear, E. J. Kenney, J.A. Richmond, Appendix
Vergiliana.
Oxford, 1966.
(Oxford Classical Text).
33.
Giorgio Brugnoli - Riccardo Scarcia, 'Osservazioni sulla 'Vita Probiana* di
Virgilio,' Studi Urbinati 39 (1965) 18-46.