42
VERGILIUS
29. Williams, R. D., 'Aeneid 11.
400-409/ CP 61 (1966) 184-6.
30.
Wittenburg, Sister Mary Ste. Therese, S.N.D., 'Vergil's Camilla/ CB 42 (1966)
69-71.
31.
Owens, Sister M. Lilliana, S. L., 'Comprehensiveness and Purpose intheAeneis,' CB 42 (1966) 87-89.
Sinon, monster
of
insinuating duplicity, in Jones' view (15) was
Vergil's creation
(Aen. 2, 57-198).
But Homer's Odyssey 8, 494, implies that a Sinonlike character existed in the earliest known stages of
the Trojan legend, with a role as climactic as the Wooden Horse of
Epeios.
Vergil's model was almost certainly Odysseus as delineated
in Euripides' (now lost) Philoctetes. (The pendant to the Sinon incident,
the Achaemenides episode, finds its inspiration in the same play). Lacroix' s (16) study of the Philoctetes (and Epeios)
legends
in
Magna
Graecia provides useful expansion of Helenus' advice to Aeneas (Aen.
3, 402) that Philoctetes had established himself at Petelia in South Italy
(cf. Strabo 6, 254).
The indispensable Servius commentary (17), under
new
editorial direction, provides authentic and enlightening material
(and asides) for students
of Vergil.
Bertha Tilly (18) widely respected
for her useful topographical studies of places in the Aeneid, provides a
compact and thoughtful school edition of Aeneid V.
On the whole, R. D.
Williams' recent text and commentary (Oxford, 1962) provides a better
balanced and more scholarly commentary, but for the final year of High
School and the first year of College Bertha Tilly's text will serve admirably.
Palinurus' unquiet grave on 'A shelfy Coast,/ long infamous
for Ships, and Sailors lost;/ and white with Bones' in Dryden's version,
has a fascination for readers and critics
of Vergil.
Smerdel (19) has
discovered a basically tragic structure and design to the episode, and a
marked divergence by Vergil
from
the
undoubted
model,
Elpenor' s
story, in Homer's Odyssey 10, 552-60. Segal's (20) study is even more
suggestive, and actually explores the implications of Palinurus' demise
in a larger framework.
Concerned initially with the complex symbolism of the Golden Bough, Segal has endeavoured to penetrate the mystery attaching to the talisman, its
relationship
to
Misenus, and
the
tragic and other-worldly associations with both Daedalus and Palinurus.
The second part of this study is eagerly awaited.
Avery (21), less concerned than some scholars with the use of cunctantem when Aeneas'
plucks the Golden Bough (Aenè 6, 211; contra 6, 143-8), pleads for what
should seem obvious to more critics.
The Aeneid is after all a poem,
a work of art, not a laboratory report, and consequently requires less
stringent analysis.
Cult and monument have received their share of
attention
recently.
Kienast's study (22)
of the
Venus
Erycina
cult,
combined with new finds at Segesta, further enlarges the implications
of the death and funeral rites of a heroized Anchises at Drepanum. The
tumular burials
of Polydorus, Misenum, and Caieta have often been
aligned with the Mausoleum of Augustus in the Campus Martius. Holloway
(23)
instances a Homeric parallel
in
the projected tumulus
of
Hector in the Troad, to be set in full view
of the ships passing through