38
censure
Athenia
acterist
nobler
Segal's
that cen
and exp
The article is filled with sensitive insights and commonsense.
Aeneas disappoints because 'he is cast in the mold of the Augustus from Prima Porta, not that of Hamlet: he suffers from his political responsibilities and his Augustan model'. The Marcellus passage is not merely Vergil's In Memoriam to the heir apparent but
'as an instance of intense grief in the present, he sums up for
Vergil and his audience the previous sufferings in Rome's past,
and points ahead to sufferings to come'. Caieta, for Segal, is the
replacement for the mother who cannot die, and her death completes Aeneas' experience with the loss of persons near and dear
to him: Palinurus, Misenus, Anchises and Caieta. Finally he explores the mythical and philosophical aspects of the Bough, which
belongs to both the upper and lower worlds and images the fundamental reality of man's position betwèen both. Stegen (23) reconstructs the prose redaction of A. 6, 595-655 and discovers two
main groups in the interior of Hades: (a) the enemies of Jupiter
and (b) other guilty parties (575-584; 595-627). He argues against
Havet's insertion of 616-20 between 601 and 602 and against the
substitution of quo for quo s at v. 602. De Grummond (24) finds a
fully realised figure of epic scope in Diomedes, a fighter become
philosopher-king, idealized yet warm, dignified, and courageous.
A new Diomedes has risen from the old likeness, regenerated in
his cherished Saturnia regna . Cannon (25) examines the characterization of Turnus, Pallas, Evander, Venus and Vulcan, and finds
them masterly and realistic. Duckworth's study of Nisus and
Euryalus (26) concludes that Vergil offers 'in dramatic form a
psychological study of two youths whose motives are basically
noble but who do the wrong things and suffer tragic deaths as a
result.' He argues that the story is neither an independent, unit
nor digression. He regards the story as preparation for the poet's
treatment of character and event in 9-12, and as of the utmost importance in foreshadowing the fate of Turnus. Lieberg (27) recognises the fundamental importance of Juno's role in the epic. The
motif of a Juno able to compromise probably derives from both
Naevius and Ennius, a character which Horace develops in Odes
III, 3. The reconciliation between Jupiter - Fate and Juno yields
a higher synthesis; and Juno enters the Roman pantheon as a
tutelary numen of Romula gens . Anne Booth's archaeological study
(28) draws on the Vergilian Venus 'for elucidation of the Ara Pacis