VERGILIUS
17
14.
H.E. Gould (ed.) P. Vergili Maronis Eclogae ('Modern School
Classics'), Macmillan, 1967.
Colin Hardie's (1) discussion of Vergil is heavily weighted towards the bucolic
poems and is distinguished for its concise elucidation and comment. Inter alia one
respects his authoritative dictum that 'Georgics II, 198-9 make it quite clear that
Vergil was not spared the confiscation nor ever had the family estate restored'.
Skanland (2) interprets Litus as the 'part of the beach affected by the tide, the
foreshore'. Nethercut's article (3) addresses several Eclogues along with Aeneid%
and 9 in his 'historical' study of Bucolic 2, and equates Corydon with Vergil (4241 B.C.) addressing Octavian, a more precise reading than La Penna's (4). Charles
Segal (5) attacks Vergil's motif of the cups and discovers meaning beyond the
concrete along with a complex and suggestive unity in the third Eclogue. His
interpretation of the somewhat abstruse poem explores the unresolved and probably unresolvable elements at the heart of Vergil's poetry. Gotoff (6) believes
that the light inconsequential mood of the bucolic genre should discourage serious
interpretations of the 'Messianic' Eclogue. The new stability which Vergil sensed
after the pact of Brundisium led him, in Gotoff's view, to a carefree, extravagant
answer to Horace's moody Epode 16. Madame Bollack (7) offers a comparative
study of the Myth of the Ages in Lucretius 5 and Eclogue 4. Hardie's article (8)
on Eclogue 10 examines the involvement of Gallus in Vergil's passage from pastoral to didactic poetry. Through Gallus, in Hardie's view, Vergil bids farewell to
pastoral poetry and the Arcadian dream. Bayet's article (9) reviews old arguments
and offers an incomplete review of the testimonia relating to the confiscation of
the farm. Robertson (11) argues for restraint and commonsense in the interpretation
of the 'meaning' of the bucolic poems, and urges particularly that scholars should
avoid subordinating the poems (and the epic) to a propagandist theme, particularly
when the contemporary allusions are seen through a glass darkly and incompletely.
Rieu's translation (13) is prosaic and eminently useful for the novice and the
scholar. Gould's school text (14), though cautious and often oblivious to recent
trends in the criticism of the Bucolics, is thoroughly acceptable in the classroom
and certainly more attractive than Page's morass of notes. Nougaret (10) compares
5,000 words in Cicero with 5,597 words in the Eclogues. The report classifies
words by their metrical shape, and provides an analysis of Vergil's metrics, complete word lists, and the location of metrical patterns in the Eclogues.
GEORGICS
15.
H. Drexler, 'Zu Vergil, Georg. I. 118-159' RhMus 110 (1967) 165-74.
16.
H.H. Huxley, 'Corusca dextra or Corusca fulmina? (Georgics I, 328-9)?'
Vergilius 13 (1967) 51-2.