22
VERGILIUS
72.
Robert F. Paget, 'The Great Antrum at Baiae', Vergilius 13 (1967)
42-50.
The epic claimed the lion's share of scholarship during the past year. Klingner's
text (25) is welcome and reliable. Quinn (26) treats Aeneid 1, 755-6 and 5, 626
and suggests that the wanderings of Aeneas occupied five years by our reckoning,
After the Greek departure in the spring and the city's collapse in the early summer,
the departure of the refugees came, in Quinn's view, one year later, at the start of
the following summer. Speranza's (27) annotated text is conservative and unimportant. Tracy (28) examines some of the ramifications of the Helenus episode.
Aeneid 4 has engaged the attention of several scholars with the major emphasis on
Dido, her predicament and her defense. The new availability of Pease's (31) marvelously pedantic and authoritative commentary is most welcome, and school and
college classrooms will also applaud Bertha Tilly's (35) serviceable and generally
attractive addition to the 'Palatine Classics'. However, students who are introduced
to Vergil through Bertha Tilly's text will hardly appreciate the impact of recent
and diverse scholarship on the best-loved book. Pearce (34) argues for the meaning
'kindly' in his interpretation of placidas viri deus obstruit auris (440). Koch's study
(36) emphasizes parallelisms in theme and imaginative language in the firstfour
books of the Aeneid. Galinsky (37) attacks the 'superfluous' approach to the Fifth
Aeneid and argues for its central role in the epic. He detects an Aeneid in parvo in
the maligned book, and believes that it was composed concomitantly with the rest
of the epic. The boxing-match between Dares and Entellus was, in his view, affected
by scenes in Aeneid 12, and is another indication that the book was finished late,
near the end of the Aeneid*s composition. Eichholz (40) detects a chronological
scheme in the composition of the shield's subject matter, scenes which were creditable to Rome and flattering to Roman pride. Dynamic rather than thematic structure
explains the rationale of the content. The Golden Bough causes Koch (41) to make
a botanical examination of 'classic' mistletoe, and Segal (42) to engage with a symbolical interpretation of the 'delaying' action of the talisman. Segal interprets the
hesitation as a symbolical anticipation of the rude loss of innocence which awaits
the peaceful forest of Italy - attacked so purposefully and sacreligiously by Agrippa
on the slopes of Avernus. Segal finds the bough's effort to retain its integrity as
comparable to the forced acquiescence of Saturnian Italy and Saturnian Juno to
the dictates of Jupiter and the security of the Trojan destiny. Maurach's study (44)
of Ascanius' archery and his role in Aeneid 9 explores Homeric and Hellenistic
analogies in determining the meaning and the proper function of Ascanius-Julus.
Fontenrose's polemic (45) casts much fresh light on the formalities and implications
of Vergilian oaths at critical junctures in the action. Raymond Bloch (46) examines
the implications of Servius adAen 5, 422 (an allusion to Etruscan triadic design in
temple architecture), the equation of Juno with Astarte (the Tanit of Carthage) in
Aeneid 1, 44 If., with sidelights on the Pyrgi gold plate inscriptions, and finally the
Thracian sacrifice {Aeneid 3, 18ff) and the awful manifestation of Polydorus' murder.