VERGILIUS
23
Davis (47) charges that the hunt theme reveals that the epic was no simple paean to
Imperial Rome but 'Vergil's personal commentary on the costs of empire, paid by
victors and victims'. Dilke (48) detects some of the simpler numerical elements (3,
7, 12, and 30) in the poem and investigates whether they were deliberate insertions
or not. His article is a timely relief for those who favour structural analysis over
complicated mathematics. Duckworth (49) offers a detailed discussion of the structure of the epic, basic themes, and similarities and contrasts. Inter alia Duckworth
treats the Evander episode and its valuable effect on the latter part of the Aeneid,
and provides in passing some good remarks on Rome's topography and the shield
(78-80). Hornsby (50) explores the recurrent figure of the 'shepherd' in Vergil's
works, from the knowledgeable pastor of the Eclogues, to the 'shepherd of the
people' in the epic. Hornsby (51) also examines the recurrent pattern of the wearing
of spoils and its disastrous consequences throughout the epic. Each episode is examined in the context of its book with critical discussion of the suggestive nature of
the pattern which culminates in Turnus' death. McDevitt (53) concludes that
hysteron proteron does not exist in the epic as a linguistic trick or ornament; the
reversal of clauses is deliberately designed to provide a particular poetic effect.
Morland's article (54) on the influence of Horace's Odes on the Aeneid indicates
that further work remains to be done along comparable lines. Nethercut (55) notes
a latent tendency in the Trojans to furor and aggrandisement and so an identification
with the nature of the Greek invaders of Troy. Kenneth Quinn's (57) long awaited
study of the Aeneid is a masterly subjective critical description which deserves to
be on every reference shelf. It will excite much argument and probably adverse
comment for its fresh and contentious approach to hallowed areas of 'scholarship
sublime', but will be enlightening to most and a fine support to the growing appreciation of Roman literature in general. Rexroth's (58) pithy remarks on the Aeneid
assess the epic as an anti-heroic poem wherein the civil conscience argues against
heroic virtue in the shape of a counter-Odyssey. Outstretched hands provide a
common gesture in the Aeneid, and Sullivan's (59) systematic review of gestures
to gods and humans emphasizes the persuasive and expressive potency of the
gesture. Williams (61) uncovers a private and public voice in Vergil, the former
intense, sympathetic and pitying, the other concerned with pacific behavior and
the civilizing mission of Roman imperialism. But the divorce from real life, the
mythological aspects of the epic, inspired by literature, art, dreams and Homer,
constitutes the most genuine expression of the poet. The role of the gods has been
freshly examined by several scholars usually with the conclusion that the Italian
conceptions of divinity are the most appealing and affecting to the poet. Wlosok's
study (66) is a systematic detailed assessment of Aeneid 1, 223-304, 305-417, and
Aeneid 8, 608-728, with 520-40. Castagnoli's archaeological quests into Aeneas'
Latium continue to yield valuable illustration and confirmation of the Vergilian
allusions. Both articles (67, 68) deal with the sanctuary zone at Lavinium, the 13
altars, consecrated perhaps to the Penates, the problems connected with Troia, the
Lucus Solis Indigetis, and the river Numicus. Schweizer (70) casts valuable light on
Italic elements in the enic and the noet's overriding concern and svmoathv for the