VERGILIUS
51
the 'nobiles', whose factional struggles for private ends and for the grand 'figura7
impaired and finally destroyed the Republic. Earl's study of the Augustan Age (74)
provides valuable asides on Vergil and the literary scene. Edinger's article (75) is
concerned with assonance and its quantity in the Eclogues concentrating on the
single syllable 'or'. Felperin (76) provides a verse translation of Aeneid 2, 506-558.
Gossage (80) shows that Statius and Silius Italicus were much closer to Vergil than
Valerius Flaccus. Silius' produced an anachronistic imitation; Statius* Thebaid is
closest to the Vergilian spirit and poetic technique.
Guadagno (81) continues the discussion of the C. Cornelius Gallus inscription on the Vatican obelisk with reference to the poet's tragic death which had such
dolorous implications for Vergil. Haarhoff (82) argues that in the material world
Vergil supported Augustan policy from inner conviction as the best available. But
Vergil was no instrument of Augustan propaganda for he looks down on him from
a great spiritual height. Hagendahl's monumental study (84) reveals the marked
influence of Cicero and of Vergil on Augustine, and of Sallust and Terence in
lesser degree. Howell's article (87) on the meanings of postis explains Aeneid 2,
480 and 493: postes refers to the leaves which are torn off the pivot-pole (cardo)
not just the sockets. Vergil also refers to one of the disadvantages of the Roman
type of door (Aeneid 1, 449):
the pivot-pole became stiff and groaned in its sockets.
McKay's address (89) treats reflections of architecture and the fine arts in the Aeneid
from the standpoint of technique and subject matter. Vergil's epic as pictorial composition is better appreciated when viewed in the tradition of Roman (and Hellenistic) art, historical, allegorical, and triumphal. Vergil has frequently been acknowledged as an expert among landscape painters who have used words instead of pigments.
McKay's chapter (90) in the Dudley collection shows how Poussin, Claude, and Turner
dealt with Vergilian landscape, each responsive and faithful in his peculiar fashion. The
painters often revealed a sureness of taste and judgment that overshadows the literary
critics of their time and our own. Otis' article (92) on the unique quality of Roman
literature includes Vergil in its purview. Paget's articles (93, 94) describe the Greek and
Roman ports of Cumae, particularly the military harbour of Agrippa beneath the acropolis on the Tyrrhenian shoreline where the menace of Sextus Pompey was omnipresent
after 40 B.C. Paget's naval experience served him well in locating the two lighthouses
along the shore, traces of moles, and the line of a Roman canal from nearby Lake
Fusaro (the ancient Acherusian Swamp) that supplied scouring water for the Roman
port beneath the Grotto of the Sibyl. He has also determined the original design of
the Portus Julius (Georgics 2, 161ff). Pollard's lecture (96) examines Vergil's ambivalent attitude in his most profound passages (Aeneid 1, 461; 8, 65; Georgics 1, 169f.
Aeneid 3, 381f., Aeneid 6, 28f., etc. Savage (98) analyses Georgics 3, 563-66, and 4,
559-66, and suggests that Vergil's epitaph (Mantua me genuitf etc.) follows a pattern
which may allude conceptually to the favorite maxim of Augustus - 'festina lente'
(Suet. Aug. 25, 4). Segal (100) and Sullivan (103) both provide valuable observations
and counsel in matters of modern literary criticism. Silhanek's prose version of the
Aeneid (101) is heavily abridged and paired with an abridged Iliad for secondary school
students. Sullivan (102) tries to show that suffering in Vergil always has a meaning,
partly discernible in this life, wholly revealed in the after-life. Vergil sensed that great
achievements are coupled with great suffering, that nobility of character needs testing
in the fires of affliction, and that love inevitably involves sacrifice. Whitfield (106)