46
VERGILIUS
riga. Dunstan's paper (23) specifies foreshadowings of the tragedy of Dido and Aeneas
in Book 1, and indicates how points and ideas are resumed and developed in Book 4.
Dunkle (24) finds that the oft-reiterated weariness in Book 3 is symbolic of war's
exhaustion, whereas rest is a symbol of peace after the political and military convulsions of the past. Eternal Dido continues to inspire new studies of her nature and predicament. Khan's article (26) discusses the aesthetic possibilities of the sword motif and
Ovid's use of the sword as a vehicle of pathos at the climax of the queen's appeals in
Heroides 7. Camps' lecture (29) is a challenge to complacency about the role of
AeneicL 6. Duysinx (30) answers Guillaume Stegen (Otia 15:2 (1967) 75f) in his study
of the substance and plan of the verses assigned to the vestibule of Hades. Setaioli (31)
examines Georgics 4, 479-80 and Aeneid 6, 438-9 in exhaustive detail and admits to
ignorance at the close though he suggests that there may be Orphic associations in the
meander pattern of the Styx. Jackson Knight's posthumous chapter (32) explores
Vergil's two systems of belief about life and death, one Platonic [Aeneid 6), the other
Homeric - the traditional dichotomy between the religious and the psychic, the
church and the free prophet, the institutional and the spiritual. Vergil characteristically
includes both strains with respect for both. Kresic's article (33) examines the status
quaestionis of the Golden Bough and offers critical elucidation of the different solutions of the problem. Rhona Beare (35) argues that the women's fear is moving from
Pallanteum towards the danger. Griffith (36) gives a synoptic view of Aeneid 6, 756f
and Aeneid 8, 630f, with references to Livy where appropriate. Rowland's study in
foreshadowing (37) treats the concept of the Golden Age with its attendant suggestion
of imminent or ultimate disaster. The pageant of Rome's future on Aeneas' shield, in
Rowland's view, is less triumphant than foreboding. Prosperity and success may be
harbingers of degeneracy and ultimate destruction. Williams (38) interprets 4altus'
(line 30) as the participle of 'alo' and translates ' like the Ganges silently rising, fed
by its seven placid tributaries'. Benario (39) examines characterization in Aeneid 10
and highlights Lausus and especially Mezentius who foresaw more than Turnus and is
associated with adjectives of knowledge and ignorance (843, 907). Ferguson's lecture
(41) discusses Epicurean tension, rare usages, ambiguity, shape, sound and sense, and
glory in Aeneid 12. Austin (42) discards 'Ille ego qui quondam' as unauthentic without
decent manuscript authority, and as bristling with problems in style and expression.
Eichholz (43) offers interesting and fresh comments on symbol and contrast in the epic,
and Fletcher (44) is most perceptive in his notes on Aeneid 1-5. Kristine Gilmartin
(45) finds that Hercules is not a positive model for Aeneas, but rather an instructive
contrast who serves nevertheless to demonstrate the humanity characteristic of Aeneas.
Kraggerud (47) is concerned with the gradual development of Aeneas' character, his
positive relation to Fate (the even books), and his negative doubting attitude to
Jupiter's will (the odd books). Mirland (48) offers some challenging interpretations
of meaningful names and poetic associations in the epic. Otis' chapter (49) argues that
the Aeneid was meant to be a complete Iliad-Odyssey and so unique. Greek models
are employed not for imitation but for creative transformation. Reinhold (50) recalls
that the transcendent image of Aeneas was not universal There were non-idealized
versions wherein the hero was portrayed as less heroic and inglorious. The favorable
and the pejorative aspects ran parallel in Classical times and during the Middle Ages.
Tracy (51) finds that the sequence of incidents and the series of harrassments and
obstructions in Aeneas' wanderings recall the tradition of Phemius' 'painful returns',