VERGILIUS
39
Horace Odes 1, 24, 13-18, recalls the end of Geòrgie 4 and both poems relate to the
death of loved friends, Quintilius Varus, and Cornelius Gallus. Otis (66) provides a
thoughtful and appreciative review of Klingner's highly respected study of Vergil's
writings and advances some revised and expanding notions of his own on various sections
of the study. The several articles by Spanish scholars on stylistic aspects of Vergil's
poetry are modest contributions to a larger earlier literature (53, 60, 64, 70, 76). The
rediscovery and fresh use of Vergil's poems are touched on in two excellent studies
(62, 77), and in several articles. Mary Louise Lord's article (63) indicates that early
Christian literature preferred an older, non-Vergilian tradition of Dido; Kahn's
article on Byron deals with Canto I, Dido and Aeneas (147-50); Wittig (79) deals
with Chrétien de Troyes' Erec et Enide in a minor passage. Archaeological advances
in Campania continue to shed light on 'poetic' inspiration and contempory relevance.
Paget's (67) lynx-eyed researches in the territory of the Campi Phlegraei, especially at
Baiae and Cumae,yield fresh evidence for a reassessment of the Triumvirate's response
to Sextus Pompey and the militarization of the one-time sacred zone of Cumae-Avernus.
Quilici (68) summarizes recent finds and provides a regional map and air photographs
of Pozzuoli (where bradyseism recently accelerated and caused great duress), the
Cumaean amphitheatre (and the Villa Vergiliana), Misenum, and Baiae. Kytzler's
study of Statius' Thebais (61) estimates Vergilian influences throughout. Lüy Ross
Taylor (74) suggests that Vergil, at the age of 26, may have received the gold ring of
equestrian status from Julius Caesar, and probably occupied a seat of honor in the
theatre during the recitation of the Eclogues. An abbreviated and simplified version of
Gordon Williams' monumental Tradition and Originality in Roman Poetry (Oxford,
1968) has been reissued as The Nature of Roman Poetry (TORP and NORP hereafter).
Zarker (80) suggests that the Ballista epitaph, ascribed to Vergil as his earliest poetic
effort, may be an adaptation or parody of a sepulchral inscription.
A.G. McKay
McMaster University
September 1, 1970
ANNOUNCEMENT
The Virgil Society (England) announces that the first Jackson Knight Memorial
Lecture was delivered at Exeter University on March 8, 1968:
Basil Blackwell. Letters in the New Age. (Abingdon-on-Thames; Abbey Press, 1969). Sir
Basil provides an appreciative review of Jackson Knight's contribution to humanistic
studies, and discourses on the role of computers in literary studies. Taste, judgment,
imagination, and scholarly resource in textual criticism, Jackson Knight's main concern,
may find an ally in the directed machine.