38
VERGILIUS
75.
Lynette Thompson, R.T. Bružre, "The Vergilian Background of Lucan's Fourth
Book", CP 65 (1970) 152-72.
76.
V.E. Hernandez Vista, "La aliteración en Virgilio", op.cit., (1) 342-9.
77.
R. Weiss. The Renaissance Discovery of Classical Antiquity. Oxford, Blackwell,
1969.
78.
Gordon Williams. The Nature of Roman Poetry (Oxford, 1970).
79.
Joseph S. Wittig, "The Aeneas-Dido Allusion in Chretien's Erec etEnide"y Comparative Literature 22 (1970) 237-53.
80.
John W. Zarker, "A possible Vergilian parody of the Carmina Latina Epigraphica",
Helikon 8 (1968) 392ff.
Cyril Bailey's authoritative study of religion in Vergil (43) is a welcome reprinting: it remains a thesaurus of insight and suggestion in a complicated area of Vergilian
studies. The massive sculptures recently discovered in Tiberius' grotto at Sperlonga,
of Polyphemus, and of Scylla attacking Ulysses' ship, have analogies with Vergil's literary representations (cf. Laocoon group). Bendz (44) and v. Blanckenhagen (47) concern
themselves with the date of the sculptures, their origin, and the Vergilian analogies.
Berger(45) charges that Juno's dwelling on past events at the outset of the Aeneid
exemplifies tyrannical use of the past. Aeneas realizes that he must escape the trammels
of the past (Troy) and his victory is one for the future. So also Silenus (Eclogue 6) and
Orpheus (Georgics 4) exemplify poetic traditions of the past that require revision.
Black's lecture (46) builds on Servius' remark that the aim of Vergil was "Augustum
laudare a parentibus" and finds epinician elements in the praise of Augustus. Damon (48)
argues that the thematic center of Aeneas reaches back beyond the heroic pattern of
Odysseus to the basic mythic pattern of a compulsory descent into the Underworld
followed by a communal victory over the forces of chaos; by his ultimate victory Aeneas
rises to the level of a myth and a metaphor on the life of the Roman nation. David (49)
accents mediaeval use of Troy and Aeneas as paradigms. Lucan claims attention from
Dilke (50), Thompson and Bruère (75); Ovid from Dopp (51) and Segal (72); Horace
from Moritz (65) and Reckford (69). Dilke (50) finds many "loci similes" and several
passages of sustained borrowing in Lucan, especially the naval battle in Book 3 where
details originate in a cavalry engagement (Aen. 11, 597-647). Segal's study of landscape in the Metamorphoses (72) is a sustained and illuminating study of a convention
and a symbol important, inter alia, for its Vergilian observations. DÖpp's dissertation
(51) offers a valuable and enlightening study and estimate of Vergilian influence on
Ovid's writings, particularly Heroides 7 where Ovid's customary independence of
models breaks down.
Literary and compositional devices are the topic of several articles. Haarhoff (57)
reviews the propaganda elements in Vergil with fresh insight and restraint; Jensen's
study of mathematical technique (58) is a concise summary and example in a contentious
area of research; Savage (72) with ingenuity and customary insight probes a new area of
poetic inspiration; Szantyr (73) deals suggestively with the Vergilian digression in an
article that should prompt fresh attention to the "ekphrasis" in Vergil; Grillone's study
(56) of the epic dream has to be read alongside Hans Rudolf Steiner's exemplary Der
Traum in der Aeneis ('Noctes Romanae, 5') (Bern/Stuttgart, 1952). Moritz (65)
reassesses Horace Odes 4, 12 ("lam veris comités") and argues that it was composed
for Vergil: the first half recalls the Arcadia of Vergil's Eclogues, the second half is
modelled on Catullus 13, and features a pre-Augustan neoteric atmosphere. So too