36
VERGILIUS
image; aspects of the Aeneas legend in Sicily (especially Eryx and Segesta), in Etruria
(where Aeneas evidences mysterious Etruscan traits), and Latium are freshly revealed
and convincingly asserted. Galinsky's study of the Ara Pacis reliefs and the concordant triple reliefs in the Terme Museum and Boston's Museum of Fine Arts marks a
distinct advance in their interpretation. Galinsky's study repeatedly illuminatesproblems in Aen. 5, and 7-12. Harris (28) sheds light on the place of sport in Roman
social life through a study of Aen. 5. Lejeune (29) examines the Elymian graffiti from
Segesta and postulates a hitherto unknown Italic language. Pearce (30) restates the
case for "nexantem" vs. Williams "nixantem". Austin (31) provides an authoritative
and sage analysis of a complex
area in Aen. 6 (384-476). Segal (32) provides an
engaging study of the literary life of Circe after Homer. Vergil reacts strangely to the
Homeric version by underplaying her sexual implications, and by virtually eliminating
her positive human side in favour of the 'mistress of animals' aspect; she symbolizes
demonic, seductive power. Zarker (34) finds traits of Greek heroines in Amata, who
also recalls Dido in many respects. Galinsky (36) answers recent studies of the Sol
invocation in simpler terms:
Latinus is assigned a solar genealogy to underscore his
association with the Odyssey tradition in Italy and his ties with Rome's origins;
Aeneas, who later replaced the native Sol Indiges, is associated with Apollo in
Latinus' return invocation. Pavlovskis (37) detects Vergil's leanings towards a common
origin for Achaeans, Italians, and Trojans as part of a fundamental ideology of Rome
as unifier and leveller of peoples. But Vergil also evidences some antipathy for the
Achaeans as consequence of the Trojan War. Anderson's study of pastoral themes
(39) detects a progression from the simile of the innocent shepherd (Aen. 2, 304ff)
to the discordant associations in Aen. 12 (521 ff.,587ff) where abstract ideals have
compromised with a turbulent world. Aeneas exemplifies an affection for pastoral
values, for Saturnia regna; but with his loss of innocence Aeneas is no longer the
"inscius pastor" but a purposeful resolute leader. Cruttwell's involved but often perceptive study (40) has been republished.
APPENDIX VERGILIANA
41.
Anthony A. Barrett, "The Topography of the Gnat's Descent", CJ 65 (1970)
155-7.
42.
G. Maurach, "Catal. 8 and Hellenistic Poetry", Acta Classica 12 (1969) 29-46.
Barrett's article on the Culex treats the katabasis of the gnat with reference to
Vergil's later versions; Maurach (42) is concerned with Catalepton 8, which relates to
Vergil's evacuation from Mantua and his residence at Siro's Neapolitan Garden, with
the Hellenistic aspects of the poem and its inspiration.
GENERAL STUDIES, CLASSICAL TRADITION, ARCHAEOLOGY
43.
Cyril Bailey. Religion in Vergil. (Barnes & Noble, N.Y., 1969) (originally
Oxford, 1935).
44.
G. Bendz, "Vergil in Sperlonga". Opuscula Romana 7 (Acta Instituti Romani
Regni Sueciae) (Lund, 1969).
45.
Harry Berger, Jr., "Archaism, vision and revision: studies in Virgil, Plato and
Milton", The Centennial Review 11 (1967) 24-52.