VERGILIUS
17
McLeod (34) finds colour inconsistency in Homer's account of Odysseus' ship as red,
black and blue, and of wine as black and red, and urges dispensation for Vergil's
Trojan horse which is constructed of fir,maple, oak and pine, and Charon's barque,
both blue and red. Saylor (35) sees Buthrotum as a diminished Troy implying an
intellectual distancing for the maturing Aeneas and a change of spiritual perspective.
Lilliputia suggests itself as parallel. Barrett (36) examines Aeri. 4.416-36, Dido's suspicion of disloyalty in Anna and her bitterness over Anna's relations with Aeneas
which Ovid (Fasti 3.543-656) made a cause célèbre. But the suspected affair is
evidently a product of Dido's crazed imagination in Vergil, a diminished resonance
from a larger repertoire of legends. Gloria Duelos (37) finds a subtle allusion to the
Ariadne legend in nemora inter Cresia and a pertinence to Dido's unfolding tragedy
in the Cretan references, topographical, mythical, and perhaps religious. Grant (38)
examines the bee (and ant) similes, their application to Dido's story and their evocations. Huxley's mock-0vidian verse epistle of 32 lines (39) exhibits Anna making a
'Gilbertian' proposal to Achates (cf. Katisha and Ko-ko). Kubik's article (40) finds
meaning in the Vergilian weaponry (ens/âs, sagitta), clothing and exuviae, and fire,
in Aen. 4.. Nethercut (42) examines Aen. 1,360-6; 4,123-5, 165ff., with profit. Clark
(43) studies the simile of leaves and birds (Aen. 6,309-12) in the light of earlier
descents by epic champions and with attention to Orphic associations. Lossan (44)
explores the implications ofiucundus in Palinurus' speech Aen. 6, 347-71 (363) and
favours a non-emphatic use. Putnam (46) offers a provocative study of A. 7 and
emphasizes the theme of metamorphosis in the Aeneid and the meaning of the final
moments of the epic. Aeneas' actions, in Putnam's view, raise questions about Rome
and human life, because Aeneas' personal passions gain sway over his reason at the
final crisis and the hero's stature is diminished. Heilman (47) finds Evander a substitute for Anchises. Eleanor Leach (48) examines Aen. 10.762-8 and explores the
intimations of the simile. Like Orion (and Polyphemus) Mezentius moves in the
darkness of spiritual blindness but the final scene features a disillusioned victor over
a tired old man. There is more than astronomical lore and a suggestion of stature in
the simile. Sullivan (49) is concerned with Vergil's transformation of a brutal tyrant
into a broken-hearted father and pitiable human being,Muller (50) is concerned with
Turnus (and Hotspur) as scapegoat and war criminal. Vergil's hero cannot possibly
extend generosity to the defeated foe (unlike Shakespeare with Hotspur) and
Aeneas is therefore accorded less than 'justice' for his final action. Thaniel (51) finds
several associations for the 'boundary-stone' which serves as Turnus' weapon of despair (Aen. 12,896-909) but favours the 'weight' of destiny as the most relevant.
Hornsby's exemplary study of Vergil's epic similes (52) shows that the similes interact
with each other and with the structure, plot, character and imagery of the epic.
Hornsby's well-organized research reveals unsuspected facets of Vergil's poetic technique and patterns of expression. Morris (54) argues that the concept of heroism is
not merely a matter of the educative vision; narrow tenacity is a vital factor in Aeneas'
presentation. There is something of the devil's friar in Aeneas and A. 7-1 2 mark the
slow recession of his individual personality to an iron, irreducible core. Reeker's study
of landscape (55) parallels areas of McKay's Vergil's Italy (88) but is more restricted
and differently oriented. Reeker is concerned with the atmospheric and impressionistic
effects of landscape; with periplus and periegesis in Homer, Apollonius Rhodius and