VERGILIUS
21
alternation of close-up and distance shot, etc.) makes him susceptible to cinematic
criticism and production! Cutting, dissolves, stop-action, zoom, flexibility are all
part of his stylistic repertoire. McKay's study (88) of Vergil's literary topography
treats the achievement of Vergil, and six geographical areas: Cisalpine Gaul and
Lombardy; Etruria; Rome; Latium; Campania, Lucania, and Central Italy; Magna
Graecia and Sicily. It highlights Vergil's genius as landscape artist and as Italy's most
sensitive interpreter. 73 black and white illustrations and 5 maps help to illuminate
the argument. Paget (90) describes the great monument of Bacoli from several viewpoints: as silo, dry-goods store, cistern, and temple, with a preference for the last,
suggesting that it may have housed an initiatory cult. The naval battle of Cumae
(B.C. 38) impaired Sextus Pompey's designs against the triumvirate and excited
Agrippa and Octavian to strong countermeasures in the shape of the Portus Julius
(Avernus-Lucrinus). Pageťs article (91), product of autopsy and naval experience,
sheds fresh light on this neglected episode which transpired during Vergil's residence
in Campania. Rowland (92) treats Aeneas in his twelfth century Irish transformation.
He emerges as a more human personality, chivalrous and heroic, but less human than
Vergil intended him to be. Savage (93) examines Donatus' anecdote concerning Vergil's
pique at Batülus, and all such poetasters, who plagiarized and conspired to win the
favour of the Palatine Princeps. Savage also examines Cornificius' distich, which derived
its theme from Horace, Odes 1,12,40-52, and ostensible neo^Pythagorean influence on
Vergil. Stubbs (96) treats Vergil's tendency to the apocalyptic, beginning with EcL 4,
and discovers common traits between the tender visionary Vergil and the robust
moralizing science-fiction writer. Tanner's important article (97) revives interest in
Vergil's attitude towards Mark Antony before Actium. Several disputed passages are
examined: Georg. 1,24-43, 466-516; 2,161-4, 170-2; 3,10-48; and 4,599-66. He argues
that the praises and tributes to Octavian may be re-workings of earlier praises of
Mark Antony, and suggests that the Georgics have a distinctive political significance.
Parallels between Orpheus/Eurydice and Mark Antony/Cleopatra suggest that there may
be an allegory of Actium in the Aristaeus epyllion. An appendix treats the Pindaric
proem of G.3. Thompson (98)criticizes Pöschl's use of the words 'symbol' and 'symbolism' (V. Poschl, The Art of the Aeneid. Michigan, 1962). Poschl's analysis is often
patently allegorical and so more aptly described as such. Townend (99) examines
Mynor's Oxford Classical Text (1969) for changes and retentions of punctuation, and
samples his response to sense-breaks and rhythms. Vessey (101) elucidates literary
allusions and attitudes in Propertius' Elegy to give proper perspective to his praise of
Vergil. Von Albrecht's review (102) of Dudley's Virgil (London and New York, 1969)
is authoritative and helpful; his study of the use of tenses in the Aeneid is an important
contribution to textual study (103).
A.G. McKay
McMaster University
September 1, 1971