VERGILIUS
37
less, unproductive relationship. Disaster was the certain outcome. Clawsey's
poem explores the adjustment between Trojan victor and Latin bride. Lewis'
article (28) deals with Aeneas' dual nature, passive impotence and frenetic
activity. 'His vision of the rape of Priam's castle isan encoding of an obsessive
infantile fear:, the threat of the father to kill or annihilate the mother, and by
doing so, to
kill the child in the process.' Stewart (29) maintains that the
essential subject of the epic is the 'education' of a political leader. Vergil saw
the acceptance of political leadership as a crucial denial of natural human
feelings; eventually
the feelings rebel and
the crisis tends to destroy the
characters of all
but the most stalwart. Fuchs (30) is concerned with the
archaic and classical artistic versions of the flight of Aeneas, with Hellenistic
types and the tradition in Roman poetry. The Western forms, both numismatic
and sculptural
(Forum Augustum)
are relevant to Vergil's 'group'.
Galinsky's article (31) is a revised version of his earlier offering (Latomus 28
(1969) 3-18), treating the achievement of Vergil incomposing an Italian epic
wherein Aeneas would replace Ulysses. Horsfall (32) studies the Vergilian
date for the Alban Kings which conflicts with the common historical tradition. The intention
is clear: to yield a symmetrical progression of numbers
3-30-300 which provide a magical or mystical total. Horsfall suggests that 88
BC (AUC 666) affected Vergil's reconstruction (cf. Plut. Sulla, 7, 3). Egan
(33) studies the variant tradition whereby Aeneia on the Thermaic Gulf was
the terminus of Aeneas' wanderings, his ultimate settlement, and deathplace.
He advances Konon, Díêgêseis 46, as testimonium to the alternate legend, and
argues that the funeral of Polydorus was Vergil's response to the account of a
funeral which was prominent in the Aeneas tradition inThrace. These and
other factors inthe epic narrative suggest that Vergil may have had access to a
Thracian/tetfe/c/. Horsfall (34) analyses the literary and historical tradition
relating to the Trojan 'return' to Italy and the migration to Troy from Corythus (Tarquinii); and (35) finds conscious reminiscence of Hannibal's assault
on Rome in211 BC in the opening of A. 9. Russell (37) detects hints of the
story of Iphigenia's sacrifice inSinon's account (A. 2, 119ff.) and illustrates
Calchas' veiled head (tectus) with the figure of Agamemnon ina well-known
wall painting taken from the Pompeian house of the Tragic Poet. Small (39)
studies the Aeneas-Turnus combat inassociation withthe Eteocles-Polyneices,
combats on Etruscan funerary urns. McKay (36) concentrates on the Augustan alteration of the Apollo temple on the lower terrace of the Cumaean
acropolis. The new triadic design, the monumentality of the porticus, and the
use of cloverleaf columns at points of greatest strain, are noteworthy. The
renovated temple was no doubt part of the Augustan emphasis on the saviorGod Apollo as evidenced most notably at Actium and on the Palatine Hill.
Vergil's account
of
the
Daedalic
temple probably
reflects contemporary
regard for Augustan monuments. Bertha Tilly (40) offers a first-hand account
of the towns and districts of the Sabine catalogue: Amiternum, Cures, Eretum, Mutusca, Nomentum,
the Velinus
River,
Rosea
(or Rosia), Casperia
(mod. Aspra?), Nursia (mod. Norcia), and the Allia River (mod. Fosso Bettina). Possible sources for the Sabine catalogue include Agrippa's Destinatio
et Commentarli (Plin. NH.f 3, 2, 17).