36
VERGILIUS
of Vergil ¡an epic is sage and
informative. Stachniw's concentrates on the
hero's labores as a key word. Nethercut (15) is concerned with three questions:
the death of Misenus (and of Palinurus) preceding Aeneas' entry into
the Underworld; the departure of Aeneas through the gate of false dreams;
and Turnus' boulder
(A.
12, 896-907) and Homeric counterparts. Vance
deals with the interior states of Vergil's heroes within the framework of the
narrative. Aeneas' righteous anger against Turnus at the close awakens painful, inescapable memories of violence in Rome's past; cultures, like individuals, must learn self-forgiveness to carry on. Williams' book (17) is designed
for schools. Itaccents the ideals of the newly-founded Empire as reflected in
the Aeneid, the problems and advantages of world-destiny, and
offers a
characteristically
sane
and
perceptive appreciation
of the epic
story and
Vergil's poetry. Students are also attuned to Vergil's private voice in the
characterization
and stories of Dido, Turnus, and to Juno's fateful
role.
Wimmel's study of A. 5-8 underscores its Alexandrian nature within Homeric
parentheses.
Pastoral and
rural elements are minor motifs in the ultimate
'quartet' of conflicts. Wimmel's monograph is thought-provoking and highly
instructive. Venus' boots raise several questions which Harrison (19) endeavours to answer: (1) Why did Vergil disguise Venus inthis scene? (2) Why did
he choose the Diana-like huntress for her disguise? (3) Why did he make the
disguise only partial with Venus revealed at the close? and (4) why did he
dress Venus inboots rather than sandals? The answers indicate that the scene
is no sterile episode but one intricately involved with the Dido tragedy. Reed
(20)
argues that because Deiphobe and Aeneas are
real people (not true
umbrae)
they leave the Underworld by the ivory gate which is reserved for
false shades. They
are deceptive (falsae) in the sense that they are living
persons. Controversy continues over the 13 scenes on Aeneas' shield. Eden
argues that Vergil adheres to a perannos, per dies sequence inhis selection of
the first nine scenes to represent 700 years of history. Eden is less concerned
with
artistic examples
than
with chronological progression. The text does
seem
directional: 626, res Italas Romanorum triumphos, and 629, pugnataque in ordine bella. Highet's entertaining article (22) deals with Vergil's
revulsion for sacrificial description (A. 8, 81-85); the white sow and thirty
piglets called
for extended
butchering. Because pork and white wine are
prelude to the passage to Pallanteum, Highet constructs a line to launch their
voyage: ocius ad naves: fugat indigestio somnumi Perutelli and Wiesen shed
fresh
light on
the crucial
eighth book. Wiesen argues that the underlying
colours are dark, although there is no narrative of combat (save Hercules'
encounter
with
Cacus,
and
the
menace of Mezentius)
and no attractive
characters die. West (25) studies the deaths of Hector and Turnus from the
standpoint of organization and content. He argues against the anti-Aeneanism
of Putnam and Quinn on Aeneas' final act and prefers the assessments of
Anderson and Binder. Heroic times and Augustan politics were less concerned
with the morality of a champion's death than with the event itself.
Bryce (26) considers the nature of the Dido-Aeneas relationship and the
underlying tragedy. Two incompatible persons, subject to suspicions, fears,
resentment, despair, and misunderstanding, could only experience a meaning-