VERGILIUS
69
in taking close note of natural objects and transforming lucidly into words
what was seen; a like sympathy for the humble, weak and suffering; a sturdy
patriotism; and a veneration for duty and a sense of its place inthe scheme of
things. Douglas Bush's earlier article, 'Wordsworth and the Classics', UTQ 2
(1932-33) 359-79 still commands attention. Friis-Jensen studies more than
fiftyVergilian parallels cited in the apparatus of the 1931 edition of the
Gesta Danorum
of Saxo Grammaticus.
Himmelmann
is concerned
with
bucolic themes in art and with Vergilian influence. Huxley's verses and word
test are Vergilian appetizers; his study of Fracastoro's Morbus Ga/licus is a
fine reassessment of its merits and its indebtedness to classical models. Norton's article treats Aeneas' virtus and pietas as models for
18th
century
America and today. Saupe argues that Vergil the humanist has not yet been
compromised
by formal analysis. Spiegelman
offers an analysis of Wordsworth's abbreviated version of Vergil's Aeneid with attention to special problems of translation. Tschiedel underlines Vergilian and Ovidian elements in
Rilke's Orpheus and Eurydice.
McMaster University
A. G. McKay
THESAURUS LINGUAE LATINAE
Edited by the International Thesaurus Commission
"Thesaurus linguae Latinae", the most comprehensive Latin dictionary
of the world, is an indispensable resource and working aid for philological and historical researches in the fields of classical philology, ancient history, theology, Romance languages and literatures. It has been
published for more than 75 years by BSB B.G. Teubner Verlagsgesellschaft,
Leipzig, whereas the
International Thesaurus Commission
is
acting as scientific editor of that work. Today learned societies and
academies
from
eleven
European
countries and
one
non-European
country are represented inthe Commission. Both the scientific editor
and the publisher have made all necessary arrangements with a view to
make sure that the work can be continued inthe best possible way and
completed within this century. The following volumes have been published up to now:
A to I
completely
L
I up to locus
M
completely
0
o up to oppugnativ
A detailed
list
of
the volumes issued will be sent at the request of
interested parties.
Please send your order to an international book-shop or to our publishing house.
rp
BSB B.G. Teubner Verlagsgesellschaft
ÇT2
DDR - 701 Leipzig • Sternwartenstrasse 8
LEIPZIG
10.11.1976 Li.