VERGILIUS
57
163-76.
28. J.P. Chausserie-Laprée, 'Echos et résonances au début de la dixième
bucolique', Mélanges P. Boyancé, 173-80.
Putnam's suggestive article treats the elaboration and significance of Tityrus' setting in Eclogue
I. 'For the firstime inancient pastoral poetry two
intellectual worlds are incollision, seen inthe characterization of two shepherds only one of whom is finally settled ina landscape of permanence and
continuity.' (163). 'Two people remain momentarily near each other on the
verge of a scenario landscape which continues for one and isrelinquished by
the other. Tityrus is shielded while Meliboeus isexposed, victim of political
and
ethical
importunities
which
his
fortunate colleague escapes.' (181).
Güstin (17)- treats Eclogue 1,inter alia, during his response to M. Delaunois'
earlier articles. Powell (18) tries to determine meaning and value inEclogue
III
from the dynamics of its internal dramatic movement; in his view, the
riddles (104-7) have no answers. Currie (19) argues that Eclogue III takes its
rise from two Idylls of Theocritus but that Vergil also intended features in
the Roman or Italian comic tradition to be evoked simultaneously. Mayer
(20) follows Hermann's earlier hypothesis that Publius Nigidius Figulus, the
Roman Neopythagorean, is juxtaposed with the Greek Pythagorean, Conon.
Monteleone surveys the tradition and
the
interpretation of the Messianic
Eclogue. Tůmová (22)
includes Vergil's approach to the Four Ages in his
survey. Sutton, Van Sickle, and Hubbard offer distinct, but complementary
studies of Eclogue VI. Chausserie-Laprée assesses the invocation to Arethusa
(Eclogue X) as the last recreation of the pastoral domain and considers the
complex design of phonic reverberations which are an important structural
element.
GEORGICS: GENERAL STUDIES
29. P. Bubani, Flora virgiliana ovvere sulle piante menzionate da Virgilio
(ed. H. M. Bürdet). (London 1974).
30. J.M. Frayne, 'Subsistence farming in Italy during the Roman period.
A preliminary discussion of the evidence,' G&R 21 (1974) 11-18.
31. J.M. Frayne, 'Wild and cultivated plants: a note on the peasant economy of ancient Italy, *JRS 65 (1975) 32-9.
32.
Mervyn
M.
Keizer,
'The
Structural Technique
of
Latin
Didactic
Poetry,' HSCP 74 (1970) 339 (dissertation summary).
33. James Everett Seaton, A Reading of Vergil's Georgics. Diss., The State
University of Iowa, 1976. Summary inDA November (1976) 2850A.
34.
Jan Hendrik Waszink, Biene und Honig als Symbol der Dichters und
der Dichtung in der griechisch-römischer Antike. (Oplanden 1974).
Burdet's edition
of Bubani
provides a
new
preface,
together
with
a
biography and bibliography of Bubani. Frayne's articles, not strictly germane
to the Georgics, nevertheless provide good insights into small-scale farming
which was common during Vergil's lifespan. Seaton's dissertation assesses the
Georgics as a poem
of dialectic movement driven
by unbearable tensions
which are
first sounded in Georgics
I. The poem articulates a variety of
responses to these tensions from beginning to end. Waszink's monograph (38
pages) bears on the Fourth Geòrgie.