VERGILIUS
63
Literature and Roman History //(Carl Deroux, ed.) (Brussels 1980) (Collection Latomus 168) 157-76.
89.
A.
I. Nemirovskij, 'The catalogue of Etruscan ships in the Aeneid,'
(Russian,
English
abstract)
Vestnik Drevnej Istorii (Moscow)
143 (1978)
142-8.
90. Maria Alessio, Sed proelia virgo . . . Heroism and Death in Aeneid Eleven. MA thesis, McMaster University. (Hamilton, Ont. 1981).
91.
Paul G.
Brewster, 'The strange practice of firewalking,' Expedition
19:3 (1977) 43-47.
92. J.-L. Voisin, 'Le suicide d'Amata,' REL 57, 1979 (1980) 254-66.
93. Mark P. Weadon, 'A Note on Aeneid 12.766,' CB 57 (1 981 ) 70-71 .
Oka denies the authenticity of iHe ego qui quondam.
Phillips examines
three viewpoints in Aeolus' narrative and finds a layered significance to the
episode. Lynch argues that Ъу introducing and reporting the story of Troy's
fall on
the
level
of human interaction, Aeneas is able to claim a military
standoff and moral superiority while admitting defeat' (177). Estevez accents
the bold conception of the Helen episode as providing a stronger case for
Aeneas'
flight from Troy. Quetglas Nicolau
offers an analysis of Aen. 3;
Putnam provides cumulative and characteristic criticism of the same book.
Puccioni's scrutiny of the language of Aen. 3 yields suggestive results. Nenci
associates inlnetabilis with Anchises' demise.
Commager probes the importance
of fari and fatum in the epic (especially inAen. 4); there isa characteristic antagonism in the usage, between
fated
history and inept human
passion. But Vergil makes his readers aware of both human and divine viewpoints,
both
particular and abstract, without subscribing to either. Kinsey
understands the Sibylline utterance as forecasting that Aeneas (like Achilles)
will suffer the loss of his Patroclus (Pallas); Dorica castra (Trojans in their
camp) will endure another Achilles; Aeneas is allotted fatefully to Latium (=
dative). Monti's monograph studies the political character of the Dido episode,
the implications of
its terminology
for contemporary political
life.
Anderson studies the slender style (appropriate to amatory comedy) oí Aen.
4 and argues that itvivifies the tragic love of the queen for Aeneas. Robertson's article expands Clark's study (#42). King studies Daedalus as an element
inVergil's 'epic of the unspeakable'. Gijsel notes that creatures in Hades are
still capable of human contacts. Lewuillon senses not Cato Uticensis but Cato
Censor in Aen. 8.670. Parallels between the vision of Hector and the Deiphobus episode concern Falkner.
Michels argues that Vergil did not intend
Aeneas to recall Anchises' sermonizings which neither increase his confidence
nor affect the progress of the story. Anchises serves to remind Vergil's readers
that Rome's destiny will be the final result of Aeneas'labores. West suggests
that the Caeneus transformations reflect Dido's nature and the disharmony in
her experience.
Eriphyle,
West argues, serves to underline the connection
between
her cruel son, Alcmaeon, and Cupid's actions against Dido. Rosivach's legendary prosopography and the implications of Picus is exhaustive.
LeSueur detects vertical structure and antithetical perspectives in the contrasting and conflicting company of Dido, Aeneas, and Anchises, and of
Lavinia, Turnus, and
Latinus. Historical realities lie behind the confrontations. Vance studies the dichotomy between nature and culture inthe epic.