60
VERGILIUS
The Rape of the Lock and Vergilian Exegesis,' Essays in Literature 9 (1982)
251-60.
200. Eva Stehlíkova, 'A recent message of Vergil to our times: Hermann
Broch: The Death of Vergil,' Concilium Eirene 16 (1983) 48-54.
201. Werner Suerbaum,
Vergil's Aeneis. Beiträge zu ihrer Rezeption in
Gegenwart und Geschichte (Bamberg 1981); rev. Bernhard Kytzler, Gnomon
55 (1983) 164-6.
202. W. Craig Turner, 'Love and the Queen of Carthage: A Look at Marlowe's Dido,
'
Essays in Literature 11 (1984) 3-9.
203. Jürgen von Stackelberg, 'Vergil, Lalli, Scarron. Ein Auschnitt aus der
Geschichte der Parodie, 'Arcadia 17 (1982) 225-44.
Cottrill's list of art works and monuments in southern England which were
inspired by Vergil's Aeneid is a vade mecum for travellers. Dane finds formal
and thematic order in Chaucer's House of Fame by seeing the tripartite poem
in terms of the medieval rhetorical concept of the rota Virgili by which, as
Geoffrey of Vinsauf remarked, there are found three styles exemplified in Vergil's major works: HnBucolicis humili, in Georgicis mediocri, in Eneyde grandiloqui.
' The House of Fame Part I, has an epic subject and aspirations; II is in
the
middle
or didactic range; and III resembles the lyric pastoral
entertainments of the Eclogues. Doederlein argues that Dryden's interest in literary
pictorialism governed changes to the original in his translation of the Aeneid ;
he praised the painterly aspect of Vergil's poetry in a preface. Edgeworth
adduces Aen. 7.456f. {atro lumine), and the Zohar as inspiration for Milton's
'darkness visible.' Fantazzi's tribute examines Broch's rhapsodic, prolix account of Vergil's final hours.
Hindman's collection contains articles by Eleanor Winsor Leach on 'Illustration as Interpretation in Brant's and Dryden's
Editions of Vergil' (1502, and 1697), and Ruth Mortimer's 'Vergil in the
Rosenwald Collections,' a medley of texts and various illustrated editions.
Johnson examines Eclogue IV and Wordsworth's immortality Ode' for thematic and artistic affinities. The design, Johnson argues, is based on the
geometrical ratio
of the Golden Section, which controls the location
of
symbolic words and sounds. Return or recollection and continuity are central
to the themes and designs of both poems. Kemp deals with illustrated versions of Vergil's works. Levine examines Dryden's All for Love as a reworking
of the action of Aeneid 4. Dryden resolves the problem of abandonment not
by Vergilian but by Senecan principles. Lind mentions Frost's special interest
in Catullus, Vergil, Horace, and particularly Lucretius, and considers the relationship of North of Boston to the genre of the eclogue. Rudat argues that
Milton's opening of Paradise Lost with allusions to Vergil's opening of the
Aeneid suggests parallels between Satan and Juno as the evil forces of the
respective epics. Milton uses the Vergilian questions of the openings as rhetorical devices that create suspense and enhance various aspects of the conflict
between good and evil in both poems. Stehlikova, and Murray extol the
virtues and unique qualities of Hermann Broch's Death of Virgil (1945). Von
Stackelberg studies Scarron 's fanciful, complex, critical parody of Vergil. His
Virgile travesti abides as a paragon in the history of epic parody.
McMaster University
31 July, 1984
Alexander G. McKay