VERGILIUS
51
with heroism, wealth,
light and life. Losada treats the monstrum infelix
(Aeneid 2.245) and argues that the several components of the wooden horse
endow the horse-ship with irony and ambiguity; the horse as instrument of
destruction yields to the ships as vehicles of salvation. Schwarz 's study of fire
imagery in Aeneid 2 embroiders Knox's earlier pilot study. Schiebe explores
inconsistencies
between Aeneid 2 and 3 in the depiction of Aeneas. Haury
offers a valuable discussion of fatum, fata, and fides in his study of Dido's
culpa.
Kinsey explicates
the
troublesome
syntax (and logic)
of Aeneid
4.435-6 with the suggestion that Aeneas' venia may be said to be repaid with
interest if Aeneas should receive (in a sense) the rest of Dido's life in return
for a modest amount of his time. Cretia detects a common technique in the
Palinurus episode (5.835-6)
and Aeneid 7.406-76; the schemata of both
scenes are virtually identical. She argues that both episodes reflect an older,
traditional pattern where Temptation and Complicity are involved. Pearce's
'Tomb by the Sea' examines Vergil's use of the motif in connection with
Misenus and Palinurus, and explores the associations of the image which is
shared by Horace (Odes 1.28). Cambronne discovers that Vergil marshalled
two scenes of seven figures around Augustus in the heroic parade in Hades.
The figures are designed to play an exemplary function for Augustus whose
person they embrace. The Altar of Augustan Peace offers a relevant parallel.
Fitzgerald analyses the temple gates at Cumae and discusses the figure of the
labyrinth in Aeneid 6 and elsewhere in the epic. Skinner reverts to the physical and moral 'blurred clarities' (cf.
W. R. Johnson) of the final meeting
between Dido and Aeneas. Her assessment is compelling: 'the capacity for
injury to self, or another, is inherent in the kinds of choices a human being
must make; the ultimate tragedy may consist in being forced to choose.'
Accusations of villainy are extraneous to the entire Carthaginian episode.
Petecel interprets Aeneid 7.8-36 in the light of musical technique. The article
is an outgrowth of her earlier Recherches sur la Composition rythmique de
l'Eneide (Lille 1974). Worthington discovers parallels between Augustus and
Alexander on the shield; the bridging of the Araxes is introduced to enable
Octavian to surpass Alexander's achievements (cf. Aen. 6. 794-800). Burck's
article finds a convincing Ennian original for Vergil's high-lighting of Pallas
and for Livy's remarks on P. Sempronius Tuditanus. The article appears for
the first time in the collected works of Erich Burck. Nielson studies appearances of the trophy in Aeneid 10 and 11 with attention to both religious and
military associations. Egan's exploration of Camilla's origins and the implications of her name has important bearing on the poetic function of the warrior
maid.
Casmilla, in Egan's view, means something like 'arms' or 'armour;'
Camilla, her daughter, should mean the same and her career is conditioned by
it. Nomen est omen.
AENEID: CHARACTERS
94. G. Arrigoni. Camilla Amazzone e Sacerdotessa di Diana (Milano 1982);
rev. N. Horsfall CR 34 (1984) 61-2.
95. Elizabeth Belfiore, 'Ter Frustra Comprensa -.Embraces in the Aeneid,
'
Phoenix 38 (1984) 19-30.
96. Francesco Della Corte, 'Giunone, come personaggio e come dea, in