VERGILIUS
71
Moles returns to A. 4.124-5 and the irrelevant problem of 'who seduced
whom in the cave.' Dux femina facti (Л. 1.364) is banished as parallel; Dido
dux et Troianus offers a post-positive usage; Aeneas is described as dux Troianus because Juno aspires to the union of Dido and Aeneas as guarantee of
the union of their respective peoples (cf. 4.99-104). Brenk's assessment of the
Palinurus incident is bold and persuasive. Monaco's article on spectator response in the funeral games of Anchises suggests future lines of inquiry.
D'Elia's lecture on the Sixth Book treats, inter alia, the topography of the
Phlegraean Fields and the penumbral character of the entire book. Gotoff's
impressionistic reading of Aeneid 6 assesses the passage through the gate of
false dreams as VergiPs way of erasing knowledge of Roman history from
Aeneas' mind. He cannot retain his knowledge of the future of Rome and so
continues to move in a haze of uncertainty and unreality after the descent.
Perret argues that, based on the testimony of Valerius Flaccus and Statius, A.
6.602-7 and 616-20 have exchanged their original places. Putnam explores the
iconography of Romulus and the implications of suo . . . honore (A. 6.790).
Augustus is the new Romulus, the victor Quirinus (cf. G. 3.27), 'exalted for
acts of war. Tatum studies the allusive links of Dido with Caeneus, Heracles
of Argonautica 4, and Ajax.
Fredricksmeyer treats the concentric arrangement of corresponding sections in the central part of Book 7 (the Allecto
scene). The arrangement extends to the two outer parts of the book: the first
and third sections contain correspondences to each other in their entirety and
in their individual sections. Harrison examines Aen. 8.572-4, and suggests that
Evander appeals as an Arcadian to Jupiter's own Arcadian origins. Michel's
study of A.
8
is valuable; it includes an examination of the shield (pp.
288-90). La Penna's Vergilian lecture treats the Nisus and Euryalus episode at
length (303-15). Hornsby treats the final scene of the epic. He notes that
although anger and action have caught the attention of critics, speech and
sight are inextricably bound to both. Aeneas is sensitive to the uses and
limitations of speech and sight but Turnus is unaware and uses them in a less
sophisticated,
ineffectual
manner.
Kihsey
argues
that
the foedus
(A.
12.242-3 : foedusque . . . infectum) was not concluded and that infectum cannot denote 'cancellation' or 'undone.' Losada assesses the brief but arresting
picture of the hero frustrated by the vivid, biting stump. The intervention of
Venus
underscores
the essentially
human
nature
of Aeneas.
Giancotti's
lengthy
review
of problems and scholarship
attaching
to Aeneid
12
is
thorough and provocative.
AENEID: CHARACTERS
128. W. P. Basson, 'Vergil's Mezentius: A Pivotal Personality,' Лcía Classica 27 (1984) 57-70.
129. H. С. Gotoff, 'The Transformation of Mezentius,' ТАРА 114(1984)
191-218.
130. E. L. Harrison, 'The Aeneid and Carthage,' Poetry and Politics in the
Age of Augustus (Tony Woodman, David West, eds.)
[Cambridge 1984]