80
VERGILIUS
virtues and ethical propriety, Vegio sought to tie up Vergil's ethical loose
ends in a thirteenth book. Cristoforo Landino, Kallendorf's other concern,
embodied the best of contemporary Vergilian criticism in his Disputationes
Camaldulenses (1480) and in his line-by-line commentary on the Aeneid
(1488). Lerner's study of the pastoral genre, and its hallmarks (countryside,
language, self-consciousness in the style) is a major contribution. Lorch explains the function of Vergil's Georgics in one of the most important philosophical
tracts
of
the Italian Renaissance. Medcalf explores the gardens,
grotto and lake of Stourhead and detects elements of Vergil's durability and
impression in the places and sculptures of Henry Hoare's gardens. Newman
and Nuttall, in different fashion, explore the classical and Vergilian imprint
on Shakespeare's plays. Nuttall is more concerned with differences and similarities in sensibility in the two poets than with direct influences. Patterson
sees the Eclogues as an ideal text to document cultural history: they are a
virtual emblem, or cultural catalyst in changing times in the successive scholarly commentaries, painterly history, and awareness of social and political
contexts. Patterson's chapter offers bright new directions for Vergilian studies
in this increasingly popular area of cultural and artistic reflections and influences. Pitcher's essay points up frequent borrowings and intimations of Vergil's epic in Shakespeare's The
Tempest. Ross's Sussex lecture deals with
Dryden's Astrea Redux (1660) and his translation (1697), with the illustrators, and with discussions and quotations of Vergil in Steele's Tatler and
Addison's Spectator.
The Seasons, of James Thomson, is addressed at the
close. Sir Walter Scott, in Stovel's paper, favoured Vergilian allusions as an
artistic device, one which would add subtlety, range, and coherence to his
novels. Vance's study of the Victorians balances negative with positive perceptions of Vergil as poet of public and political themes, and as poet of
pathos. Draheim provides a remarkably complete perspective of Vergilian
influence on music from the earliest detections to modern times. Vergil's
influence on the visual arts is a growing concern of scholarship ; Boschloo, de
Jong, and Llewellyn are concerned with Renaissance and later manifestations.
Many will concur with Llewellyn's verdict on Claude's canvasses, that there
was 'either a reciprocal current of influence between text and image or . . .
Claude had a higher degree of Virgilian sensibility than any other artist before
or since.'
McMaster University
31 July 1985
Alexander G . McKay