ALEXANDER G. MCKAY
Desiderio examines common traits in Andromache, Creusa, and D
argues that Anchises is the true hero of the poem at the expense of his errant,
unstable son. Griffin is convinced that it is superficial to regard Aeneas as antiimperialist or anti-Augustan. The shield, his divinely-crafted burden, is a balance
between the achievement of Empire and the inevitable human cost. Griffith notes
that Aeneas is faceless and indistinct and that discrepancies and omissions are characteristic of his person. King argues that Vergil's resort to Achilles for his depiction
of Turnus (and sometimes Aeneas) signals his distaste for Homeric heroism, for its
irrational character and its threat to peace and civilization. Quetglas reconciles two
aspects of Aeneas, his role as representative of a lost cause, and his role as
triumphant forebear of Rome. Regner's excellent dissertation (supervised by von
Albrecht) offers a legalistic inquiry into the right and wrong of the Aeneas-Turnus
enmity. She champions adherence to the ethical systems of Vergil's Rome over the
historical and contemporary prejudices of some modern critics. Aeneas, in her view,
acts without blame in the final scene. Sachs argues that Aeneas' rage (12.946-7)
invalidates his potential as paradigm for Roman impersonal leadership, and that
self-discipline is a sine qua non for governing others. Skulsky regards Vergil's
reference to Catullus 66.39 and its Callimachean antecedent as "a brilliant
demonstration of intentional, complex, and controlled ambivalence, essent
the dramatic effect of the scene and to its thematic import" (p. 455). Ti
Dido's tragic hybris as her passionate behavior, forgetful of her queenly
responsibilities and of her oath to Sychaeus, and impervious to Aeneas' need to
leave Carthage. West detects important faults in both Chloreus and Camilla, and in
both Trojans and Latins. The effeminately dressed eunuch, and the evocations of a
sensuous, luxurious way of life, embarrasses the cause he ineffectually champions
and his death is a catharsis of Trojan weakness before Rome's advent. Wlosok's
study of heroism in Aeneas' nature is directional and provocative.
AENEID : THE LEGENDS
137. G. D'Anna, "Virgilio e le antiche tradizioni italiche," BRINDISI 32343.
138. L. Braccesi, La leggenda di Antenore , da Troia a Padova (Padova 1984).
Rev: D. Briquel, Gnomon 57 (1985) 561.
139. G. Colonna, "Virgilio, Cortona e la leggenda etrusca di Dardano,"
ArchC lass 32 (1980) 1-15. (Published, 1983).
140. A. T. Grafton and N. M. Swerdlow, "Greek Chronography in Roman
Epic: The Calendrical Date of the Fall of Troy in the Aeneid ," CQ 36 (1986) 212-8.
141. Lexicon Iconographicum Mythologiae Classicae II. 1: AphrodisiasAthena
(Zurich, München 1984). Includes Aphrodite/ Venus; Apollo; Arethusa; Aristaeus;
Ascanius; Athena/Minerva, Ares/Mars, Artemis/Diana.
Colonna perceives the myth of Etruscan Dardanus as a product of north-east
Etruria, shaped by Greek culture which concentrated in Cortona. Grafton and
Swedlow attempt to recover the calendar date of Troy's fall from learned traditions.
They settle on a date near the beginning of summer. The Iconographie Lexicon
offers useful, concise accounts of figures in the Aeneid narrative, along with helpful
bibliographies and a compendium of illustrations.
88 Vergilius