Alexander G. McKay
tragic experience; they foreshadow episodes to come when the young die prematurely and bring inconsolable grief to their parents. Paschalis also detects Vergil's
transference of Delphic associations to three separate circumstances: laurel and
tripod
to Delos; sacred spring and exhalations
to Faunus' oracle; and ecstatic
prophecy to the Sibyl at Cumae. Putnam is also concerned with the Daedalic artwork
at Cumae. He assesses the tale of Daedalus (which is the theme of the panels) as a
typology mirrored in
the ethical
"artistry" practised by Aeneas following the
standards set by Anchises at the close of Aeneid 6. Setaioli's article sheds light on
episodes and meanings in Aeneid 6. Shackleton Bailey faults editors and interpreters
for their incomplete understanding and for their conventional reading of the Marcellus eulogy. Rolfe Humphries' translation (1951) captured the essence and the
design: "Poor boy,/if you should break the cruel fates, if only-You are to be Marcellus." Skulsky studies the Sibyl's experience as sexual and is concerned with the
erotic nature of inspiration. Pearce argues that the preposition in should yield to it.
(Aen. 8, 588). Gransden and R.D. Williams followed the mss. tradition (in); Markland, Mynors, Fordyce, and Pearce favor it. Worthington challenges Eden's suggested transposition which would provide geographical order. Worthington argues
that the order is deliberately distorted to emphasize contrasts and to create dramatic
effect. Dickie sheds considerable light on
the pugnacious speech of Numanus
Remulus. Huxley's verses reflect on the Nisus and Euryalus episode. Farron charges
that Aeneas' human sacrifice (Aen. 10. 517-20; 11, 81-2) constitutes a serious attack
on both Aeneas and Octavian. Kraggerud analyses the same passages and finds no
acceptable basis for connecting the passages with Vergil's own time and the Perusian
sacrifice of 300 knights and senators at the altar of Divus Julius. Russi examines
topographical implications of the Garganus association. Diomedes is properly to be
seen as victor Gargani. Edgeworth is concerned with the two unnamed Dirae, the
necessity for the duo, and the association of the Dirae with the threshold. He concludes that the Fury cannot be named, that both are utterly destructive, and that the
threshold evokes Iliad 24 and so engenders an atmosphere of dread and doom.
Feeny, Schork, and Springer are differently concerned with the close of the epic.
Schork relates the final simile to other Vergilian contexts and so assesses the larger
significance of the "rampart" associations. Springer adduces the Iliad as precedent;
its final lines provide no detachable epilogue and the emphasis on the antagonist and
the note of sympathy are all duplicated in Vergil's final verse which centers on the
tragedy of the opponent's death in a line which was more familiar than it was shocking to "classical" sensibilities.
AENEID: CHARACTERS
110.
W.P. Basson, "Vergil's Camilla: A Paradoxical Character," AClass 29
(1986) 57-68.
111.
W.A. Camps, "Some Personal Reflections on Virgilian and Homeric Narrative," PVS 18(1986) 133-41.
112.
S. Farron, "Aeneas' Revenge for Pallas as a Criticism of Aeneas," AClass
29 (1986) 69-83.
86 Vergilius