Vergilian Bibliography 1986-1987
and competitive. Cleary and Sherwood show how Vergil and Dante shaped Conrad's
symbolic journey and his ironic treatment of women. Kurtz resembles a failed
Aeneas, "dead and buried near his Carthage and his Dido." Delage assesses Berlioz's La Prise de Troye and Les Troyens à Carthage as a merger of Vergil, Glück,
and Shakespeare. Desmond explores Chaucer's transformations of Vergilian and
Ovidian scenes. De Jong examines 20 drawings reflecting Vergilian motifs in a garden setting. Faber recalls Vergil's role in Italian fascism where imperialism was
rampant. Faessler traces the Marcellus eulogy through Dante into a Mozart motet.
Flansburg suggests that the classical valley setting for Simone Martini's frontispiece
derives from Vergil's pastoral environment and from Vaucluse. Galletti and Mulazzini examine decorated scenes from Vergil's epic in the palace courtyard. Gaylord's
article finds reasons for Chaucer's preference for decasyllabic verses for the Dido
legend and explores his application of Ovidian perspectives to the Vergilian base.
Greene offers the first thorough study of imitâtio, both in theory and practice, in a
full range of Renaissance poets. Griffin offers a masterly reflection on T.S. Eliot's
classicism and concentrates on Eliot's Dante as mediator between two otherwise
irreconcilable worlds. Huxley studies C.S. Calverley's Latin exercises in verse and
the larger issue of translation. Rubens' cartoons at Cardiff derive from epic themes;
their authenticity is vexed. Javitch sheds light on Ovid's defiance of Vergil, a factor
appreciated
by
Ariosto.
The
prioress'
brooch,
with
its
Vergilian
inscription,
highlights Chaucer's role, in Jungman's view, in medieval legend; both Christianity
and magic are ingredients of his art. Kartschoke studies the guilty/not guilty response
to Dido in the late Middle Ages. Krautter analyses the development and the uses of
the bucolic genre in the late Middle Ages and Renaissance. Larivaille examines
Pietro Aretino's Ragionamenti; Part II introduces a debate over imitation and
plagiarism. Aretino parodies the love story of Aeneas and Dido as a demythologization of the present. The Mediaeval Lectures on Vergil (#243) mark a departure from
the "monumental "
study of Domenico Comparetti of time past. Twenty scholars
contribute to
the collection. Montano reminds us
that Vergil was
the
first to
propound Divine Providence as a cosmic force before the Advent of Christ. Dante
clearly sensed in Vergil a striking coincidence with Christian thought with his sense
of destiny and visions transcending history. Morse treats the continuity of major
themes in Tolkien's Lord of the Rings and Vergil's Aeneid. Coincidences between
Frodo and Aeneas, Aragorn and Aeneas, Dido and Denethor seem somewhat challenging in the space of Middle Earth. Pellegrini's volume contains articles by
Maristella de Panizza Lorch, Mario A. Di Cesare, William J.Kennedy, and David G.
Hale. Piepho's article studies Vergilian echoes in a seaside setting in association with
religious allegory and ecclesiastical satire. Plaisant studies the influence of Vergil in
paintings by Claude Lorrain. Sanderlin argues that Aeneas and Gawain both win the
sympathy of readers today as anti-heroes, alike in their high seriousness, sense of
mission, goodness, encounters with women, and human frailty. Schneider's study of
Maffeo Vegio's Thirteenth Aeneid (1428) provides a careful edition, German translation, and apparatus criticus. Borrowings from Vergil are carefully examined in an
elegant presentation. Schräder finds sources for Grendel's home in Vergil and the
Vergilian tradition. Shanes studies a Turner painting, now lost, picturing "Aeneas
Vergilius 99