Vergilian Bibliography 2024–2025 – 105
of Rome. Not only is Aeneas indulging in barbaric ritual practice, but in
the process the founder of Rome is apparently attacking the very fabric
of Rome. The implication in immolat (Aen. 12.949), Aeneas’s word when
he says that his slaying of Turnus is a sacrifice, introduces a comparable
disquiet. Gallego Cebollada’s book studies the various stylistic ways in
which Vergil, Horace, and Ovid create portraits of their characters. Giusti
argues that Dido in the Aeneid is both the victim of the Romans’ racializing
of Phoenicians and Carthaginians, and herself an actor of the Phoenicians’
racializing of autochthonous people in North Africa. Skoutelas and Smith
observe that in Ecl. 6 and G. 4—two poems in which youths bind an old
figure with chains to compel a song—Vergil mobilizes the clash of youth
and senectitude to comment on the effects of literary tradition on his
own work. Van Geel discovers significance in Vergil’s seemingly rushed
treatment of two minor characters when they are considered in light of
Vergil’s use of Homeric epic in the intertext-heavy books 5 and 9. These
characters function as Vergil’s illustrations of Aeneas’s movement away
from the Homeric world, as the text progresses toward the proto-Roman
project that features prominently in the Aeneid’s narrative.
PHILOSOPHY AND RELIGION
Feeney, Denis. 2023. “Interpreting Sacrificial Ritual in Roman Poetry:
Disciplines and Their Models.” In The Religious History of the Roman
Empire: The Republican Centuries, edited by J. A. North, 234–60.
Oxford Readings in Classical Studies. Oxford.
Hedrick, Robert. 2024. “Evidence and Anger: Epicurean Cognition in the
Finale of the Aeneid.” In Davis and Yona, 35–54.
McOsker, Michael, and Lee Fratantuono. 2024. “Teaching Vergil to Write:
Vergil’s Aesthetics and the Influence of Philodemus and Parthenius.”
BICS 67: 71–85.
Stöckinger, Martin. 2013. “Inalienable Possessions: The Di Penates in the
Aeneid and in Augustan Culture.” In Labate and Rosati, 129–48.
Teske, Michael. 2024. “Vergil’s Bougonia Rite: Its Nature, Sources, and
Possible Link to the Indo-European Myth of Creation.” In Sublime
Cosmos in Graeco-Roman Literature and Its Reception: Intersections of
Myth, Science and History, edited by David Christenson and Cynthia
White, 89–104. London.