Vergilian Bibliography 2024–2025 – 111
Berno’s analysis of both the content and the form of Seneca’s quotations
from Vergil demonstrates that Seneca uses them not only to convey Stoic
ideas but also to provide a narrative. He prefers passages focused on
a few key concepts: virtue and fighting, god and fate, death. These are
main themes both of the Aeneid and of the epistles. The distribution of
the themes throughout the collection aims in the beginning at improving
one’s virtue and then proceeds, toward the end, to an acceptance of death.
Boureau observes that in Epist. 127 Augustine adopts the phrase uoti reus
from Aen. 5.237 to consolidate the Christian concept of the vow (for the
vow of chastity in marriage) by grounding it in the idea of a good debt and
rediscovering the republican idea of civic engagement. Celotto notes that
Persius engages with G. 1.145–49 via a “divided allusion,” evoking this
passage at two different moments in his collection (5.37–40 and prol. 10–
11) to set up a contrast between body and mind as a bad and good teacher
of morals and literature, respectively. Erskine points out that Nemesianus’s
Eclogues are the last collection of bucolic poems before the sociopolitical
shifts of the fourth century CE. Within his reuse of characters, tropes,
and narrative structures from Vergil and Calpurnius Siculus, however,
resides a consciousness of contemporary issues. The thematic structure of
his first Eclogue can be analyzed with a view to his historical context: the
eclogue finds recourse not in hoping for a new political golden age but
in the consolatory and preservative power of a poetry oriented toward
the past. Hardie points to the fact that Prudentius’s Psychomachia is an
allegorical epic as the feature that marks a decisive break with the tradition
of classical epic. Yet this raises the question of the extent to which its
allegorical techniques are, in fact, Vergilian. The question then arises as
to whether reading Psychomachia with the help of the Aeneid can also
provide insights for reading the Aeneid. Against this background, Vergil’s
use of allegorical techniques can be identified, which can be provocatively
described as Prudentian. Hudson considers the literary aims of Vergilius
orator an poeta?, the fragmentary dialogue attributed to Florus. Spence
argues that at Conf. 5.8.15 Augustine uses our recognition of the affiliation
between Conf. 5 and Aen. 4 to start us thinking about Dido, but then he
moves us to another section of the Aeneid and rebuilds the landscape of
Carthage into the landscape of the underworld. Tanozzi explores the theme
of Priam’s death: in Aen. 2, in Quintus of Smyrna’s Posthomerica, and in
Triphiodorus’s Ilii excidium, Priam’s death at the hands of Neoptolemus
follows different narrative patterns, but all the descriptions adopt, and
reverse, the model of the duel, so that the Trojan king’s death departs from
the heroic model. Tomcik (2024a) argues for the influence of Vergil’s Fama
(Aen. 4.173–97) on the opening scene of Valerius Flaccus’s sixth book (6.1–