122 – Shirley Werner
by members of the Roman Academy in which the shades of Cicero and
Vergil are conjured from the pagan underworld to admire the Renaissance
city. It can be argued that these texts, preserved in Florence, Bibliotheca
Riccardiana, MS 996, are evidence of a dramatic performance staged by
the members of the reformed academy as part of their annual celebrations
of the Palilia (or Parilia) on Rome’s birthday, 21 April, ca. 1501. Haskell
argues that, although Vergil was the Roman poet most revered by early
modern Jesuits, yet his significance for the society is elusive. Two poems
from the early and final days of the Old Society of Jesuits before its
restoration in 1814 reveal Jesuit concerns at critical historical moments
for the order: these are Francesco Benci’s Quinque martyres (Venice, 1591)
and Emmanuel de Azevedo’s Heroum libri IV (Louvain, 1789). Kirkham
argues that the Decameron by Giovanni Boccaccio (1313–1375) highlights
the instability of Reason in poetry, where a metaphysically male power is
often symbolized in female figures. Pugh discusses two eclogues by Dante
Alighieri (1265–1321), his only known compositions in Latin verse, that
were written as a recusatio in response to a verse epistle sent to him by
the humanist scholar Giovanni del Virgilio (d. 1319), in which Giovanni
pressed Dante to compose a martial epic in Latin celebrating contemporary
Italian military victories, which would prove him a worthy successor
to the author of the Aeneid. The Neo-Latin epic Hesperis by Basinio da
Parma (1425–1457) combines two main intertexts: Vergil’s Aeneid and
the Homeric epics. Smets argues that Basinio’s paratextual features, and
in particular his marginal annotations, highlight on a metapoetical level
the difficulties of combining two closely related but conflicting literary
models.
SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
Hardie, Philip. 2023. “The Tradition of Virgilian Travesty and Mock Epic.”
PVS 31: 1–25.
Valdivieso, Erika. 2024. “Searching for Dido in the Latin Epics of Colonial
Mexico.” TAPA 154: 537–76.
A travesty, Hardie notes, is the clothing of the lofty matter of epic in
low manners and low language; while mock heroic is the application of
the lofty generic features of epic to undignified or trivial subject matter.
What the two genres share is an incongruity between form and matter.
The Europe-wide fashion for travesties of the Aeneid in the seventeenth
century and the vogue in France and England for mock-heroic poetry
in the late seventeenth and first half of the eighteenth centuries provide