Vergilian Bibliography 2024–2025 – 107
Augustan stance of Augustan texts, which Duncan Kennedy’s reflections
on these points managed to cast in a different light: “‘Augustan’ and ‘AntiAugustan’: Reflections on Terms of Reference,” in A. Powell, ed., Roman
Poetry and Propaganda in the Age of Augustus (1992). Since then, the
dichotomy seems useless in a dialectic that must always consider Augustus
as a point of reference. Yet scholarship remains divided in its interpretation
of Augustus’s reign and its effects on poetry. Kennedy’s study offers
further reflections on the workings of Augustan ideology than previously
assumed. A combined rereading of that essay and Hannah Arendt’s
writings on the ideological language of totalitarian systems (The Origins of
Totalinarianism, 1951) opens up new possibilities for interpreting Augustan
rule and anti-Augustanism in Augustan texts. Gregori observes that the
prophecies, names of peoples, and military actions evoked in the Aeneid
are not entirely conventional but are intended to recall historical events
chronologically close and referable to Augustan Rome. This argument is
confirmable through the evidence of Latin inscriptions and, in particular,
through Augustus’s Res gestae 25–33. Livorsi picks out a complex web of
intertextual references ultimately dependent on Vergil, beginning with
the observation that late antique laws are often rhetorically bolstered by
expressions of popularized philosophy and theology. In a constitution of
Valentinian III against tomb violators (Nouell. Valent. 23), the phrase nec
uana fides, which features in the preamble of this law, seems merely an
ornamental allusion to Aen. 4.12. The passage in the law might, however,
be a reminiscence of Prudentius, Cath. 3.196, who had used the same
Vergilian tag to allude to Paul (1 Cor 15:13–17), thus expressing faith in
the doctrine of resurrection. The author of the Vergilian cento Versus ad
gratiam Domini also redeployed the phrase nec uana fides with reference
to the immortality of the soul, and the cento’s intertextual relationship
with Prudentius may contribute to the evidence about its date. This net
of intertextual references (Vergil, Paul, Prudentius) bestows authority on
the legal admonition and justifies an appreciation of the constitutions
as literature. Maticic finds a connection between Hercules’s drainage of
landscapes and drying up of bodies and the evocation of hydraulic works
and water consumption in Rome in the Augustan period. Mota observes
that Vergil’s descriptions of the sanctuaries of Apollo at Cumae and on the
Palatine, found respectively in Aen. 6 and 8, can be understood as links of
temporal intersection between the heroic past and the new configurations
of the cult of Apollo as well as the urban interventions carried out by
Octavian. Valencia Constantino finds possible echos of a Vergilian verse
(Aen. 1.12) and an allusion to his epitaph (Mantua me genuit) in a four-line