114 – Shirley Werner
Musio, Andrea. 2024. “The fil rouge between Cicero and Virgil: An Analysis
of Cultural and Semantic Evolution.” ICS 49: 88–113.
Nelis, Basil L. P. 2024. “Virgil and the Rhesus Attributed to Euripides: An
Unnoticed Allusion at Aeneid 1.25–7?” CQ 74: 611–17.
Robertson, Paul. 2024. “The Size of Vergil’s Cyclops: An Intertextual Study
of Vergil, Euripides, and Homer.” Vergilius 70: 33–52.
Wheeler, Anne Sophie. 2023. “Die Erfindung, Neuerfindung und
Wiedererfindung der Bukolik: Das Corpus Theocriteum und Vergils
Eklogen.” In Erfinden – Erschaffen – Erdichten, edited by Manuel
Baumbach, 291–316. Darmstadt.
Cowan suggests that Vergil’s engagement at Aen. 2.309–17 with
Callimachus’s depiction of the sack of Callion by the Gauls in the Hymn
to Delos (Del. 178–185) complicates his own depiction of the sack of Troy.
Less securely, Vergil’s inclusion of the figure of Ucalegon from Il. 3 may
also evoke the οὐκ ἀλέγοντες Phlegyans from the Homeric Hymn to Apollo
(Ap. 279), who disturbingly resemble both the Callian and Trojan victims
and the Gallic and Greek aggressors. Fratantuono (2023) speculates that
the murderous shapeshifting folkloric monsters known from quotations
in Aristophanic comedy might have inspired Vergil in his portrayal of
Dido’s metamorphosis from a responsible ruler of her people to a furious
enemy. Mercury’s misogynistic warning to Aeneas about the mutability
of women may also allude to the changing nature of these monsters.
The polymath Xenophon is an undervalued source for certain passages
in the Aeneid, as Fratantuono (2024a) notes. He is a literary precursor
to Vergil’s decisions both to emphasize Aeneas’s hunting skills and to
give bees a prominent place in his depiction of the emerging Carthage.
Frazel considers the allusions to Lycophron’s Alexandra in the Sybil’s first
responsum to Aeneas. Musio observes that there are lines of ideological
contact between the revelation of Scipio Africanus to the younger Scipio
in the Somnium Scipionis (Rep. 6) and the similar revelation of Anchises to
Aeneas in Aen. 6. An interrogation of Cicero’s treatment of the categories
of hostis (enemy), peregrinus (stranger), and externus (foreigner) shows how
Vergil received these categories and moved beyond them in his portrayals
of Aeneas and his companions upon their arrival in Italy in Aen. 7 and
beyond. Nelis notices that the narrator’s account of Juno’s anger at the
outcome of the judgment of Paris at Aen. 1.25–27 contains an allusion to a
prologue transmitted in manuscripts of the Rhesus attributed to Euripides.
Aeneas’s tearful reaction at 1.469–73 to seeing an image depicting the fate
of Rhesus in Juno’s temple in Carthage gains extra point after the allusion:
Aeneas could be perceived as misreading the scene and not understanding