120 – Shirley Werner
composed by Paschasius Radbertus (ca. 790–ca. 860) framed as a dialogue
between the monks of the abbey of Corbie, in which the author’s fictional
persona wrongly accuses Vergil of having stolen a line from Horace.
The article considers why Vergil was associated with falsehoods, while
Horace could be seen as a philosopher and moralist. Lentano informs
us that some biographies of Vergil written in the Franco-German area
during the Middle Ages (from the seventh to tenth centuries) mention
that Lucretius was Vergil’s maternal uncle, a belief that perhaps reflects
an ancient Celtic social institution (avunculate) that was still in operation
at the time. Maulu takes as a point of departure the reestablishment of the
Old French text of Noirons le Arabis in Biblioteca Nazionale Universitaria
di Torino, MS L.11.14, a manuscript damaged in a catastrophic 1904 fire.
Discussion focuses on the figure of Vergil and his fictitious genealogy and
situates this narrative unit within the larger structure of the manuscript.
The Geoponica, a Byzantine collection of twenty books on agronomy
and agriculture, offers information on the classical and late antique folk
belief in bugonia, the phenomenon (described in Vergil, G. 4.284–318) of
restoring a beehive from a dead ox. Muniz compares the Geoponica with
the traditions of bugonia represented in the traditions of Vergil and Varro.
Tilliette (2024a) also considers the Alexandreis in terms of its generic
relationship to the Aeneid.
RENAISSANCE AND TUDOR WRITERS
Abbamonte, Giancarlo, and Fabio Stok. 2022. “Sulle orme di Pomponio
Leto: Il commento alle Georgiche di Aurelio Lippo Brandolini.” Nordic
Journal of Renaissance Studies 18: 1–28.
Filieri, Emilio. 2021. “Dopo corona e mitra: Un dolcissimo patre per Dante;
Virgilio oltre la similitudine.” Studi Medievali e Moderni 25: 79–105.
Funari, Fernando. 2023. “‘Sacrée faim de l’or!’: L’hypotexte virgilien dans
les traductions françaises de Purg. XXII, 40–41.” Revue des Études
Dantesques 7: 139–60.
Gervais, Kyle. 2022. “Virgil’s Hero, Turnus: Maffeo Vegio’s and Pier
Candido Decembrio’s Supplements to the Aeneid (with a New Edition
and Translation of Decembrio).” Renaissance and Reformation 45: 17–
49.
Gros Lladós, Sònia. 2021. “Otium litteratum en la novella cavalleresca
Curial e Güelfa.” In La “Cavalleria umanistica” italiana [The Italian
“Humanistic Chivalry”]: Enyego (Inico) d’Avalos e Curial e Guelfa
[Enyego (Inico) d’Avalos and Curial e Guelfa], edited by Antoni Ferrando